---
layout: post
title:  "Getting a Free Domain Name"
date:   2018-03-25
author: Domhnall
categories: jekyll freenom
---

In this post I take a quick look at how to get a free domain name for my-awesome-site.

### Overview

So far I've been using free hosting provided by Github pages to host this site. As is only fair, they give everyone a generic domain name in the form `USERNAME.github.io` however they also make it really easy to redirect this to any top level domain that you like.

### TLDs

Domian names are ubituitous with the web. The original web 1.0 craze was referred to as "the .com bubble" after the domain name that characterised the startups of that time - aol.com, yahoo.com, lycos.com etc. A .com domain name is supposed to be used by an internet **com**pany, so despite the fact that so many of these innovators were based in the US, .com was the domain of choice.

### ccTLDs 

In additon to generic TLDs for companies, educational institutions and non-profits organisation, every country in the world has it's own unique country code top level domain. In many countries, such as Ireland, the .ie domain is tightly regulated and in the past was quite expensive (relative to more permissive TLDs anyway.). In other countries a ccTLD was a way to generate revenue for thier country, either by licencing their domain name or by giving it away for free.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/34gHoxqZlJc" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### Freenom

Using a site like Freenom you can quickly and easily sign up for a free domain name under one of the following ccTLDs:

- .tk (Tokelau)
- .ml (Mali)
- .ga (Gabon)
- .cf (Central African Republic)
- .gq (Equatorial Guinea)

At the time of registration simply use the following IPs:

[Setting up an Apex Domain](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-an-apex-domain/)


### Github

Back on Github all you need to do then is create a CNAME record for your site in the root directory.

### Congfig.yml

Don't forget to edit the `URL` property of your config.yml page to refelct your new domain name.

